Security Information and Event Management (SIEM)

SIEM is a set of tools and service offering a holistic view of an organization's information security.
these product are similar to IDPS products, however the alert generated by SEIM (Security Event and Incident Management) include wazuh and Graylog.

SIEM tools provide:

    a. real time visibility across an organization's information security systems.
    b. event log management tht consolidatesdata from numerous sources.
    c. a correlation of event gathred from different logs or scurity source, using id-then rules that add intelligence to raw data.
    d. automatic security event notifications. most SIEM systems provide dashboards for security issues and other method of direct notification.

SIEM works by combining two technologies :
    a. Security Information Management (SIM), which collects data from log files    for analysis and reports on security threats and events
    b. Security Event Management (SEM), which conducts real-time system monitoring, notifies networ admins about important issues and establishes correlations between security events.

before we dive into the details of how SIEM software works, we need to understand two related acronyms SIM and SEM.

    1. SIM, which stands for security information management, is a tool that provides analysis and reporting for historic security event with historic here meaning not that these events are part of some epic, important historical event, but merely that they happened is the past. SIM system grew out of the log management discipline, and work to automate the collection of log data from various security tools and system and sufgace that information to security managers

    2. SEM, which stands for security event management, is similar to SIM, although instead of focusing on historic log data, it attempts to work in real time, or as close to it as possible to indentify specific events releant to security professionals. for instance, if a user somewhere on your network manages to elevatetheir privilegs to admin status in a way that is out of the ordinary, a SEM system should let you know about it.

SIEM software, therefore has two main objectives:

    1. privide reports on security-related incidents and events, such as successful and failed logins, malware activity, and other possible malicious activities

    2. send alerts if analysis shows that an activity runs against redetermined rulesets and thus indicates a potental security issue.

How does SIEM work?

logs and other data need to be exported from all your securiy systems into the SIEM platform. this can be achieved by SIEM agents. program running on your various systems that analyze and export the data into the SIEM. alternately, most securiy systems have built-in capabilities to exoprt log daa to a cestral server, and your SIEM platform can import int from there. 

which option you take will depend on your netwok topography and bandwidht capabilities, as well as the typs of systems you need to get logs from the amount of data transmitted and processing power necessary at the end points can degrade the proformance of your systems or network if you don't implement things carefully. SIEM agent at the edge can relive some of that burden by authomatically parsing out some data before event sending it over the network. at any rate, you'll want to ensure that your entir infrastructure is instrumented for SIEM, both on-prem and in the cloud. 

SIEM tools also draw information from threat intelligence feeds. basiclly, update feeds of data about new information of malware and the latest advnced persistent threats. some of htese feeds are maintained by the SIEM vendors, but other are open source or internally maintain by securiy teams at large organizations, and some SIEM platforms allow you to use your favorites. other customization options include the ability to thigly integrate your SIEM platform with specific security tolls.

TOP SIEM tools and vendor 

- Exabeam
- IBM
- LogRythm
- Microsoft
- Rapid7
- RSA
- Securonix
- Splunk
- FireEye


Reference: 

    https://www.imperva.com/learn/application-security/siem/
    https://www.csoonline.com/article/2124604/what-is-siem-security-information-and-event-management-explained.html